Update changelog for 0.12.14 release (#3193)
PegaSysEng/artemis: CHANGELOG.md

# Changelog

## Timeline to Mainnet

> With the announcement of the Eth2 deposit contract and setting the minimum genesis time to 
> Tuesday, December 1, 2020 12:00:00 PM UTC the journey to launching the beacon chain is in its final stage.
> Teku is ready to be a part of the Mainnet launch and we are working with other client teams to coordinate 
> all the details required to make the launch a success. Here's a timeline of key events, including the
> Teku releases that will lead up to Mainnet launch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The journey to launching the beacon chain is in its final stage with the announcement of the Eth2 deposit contract, and minimum genesis time of Tuesday, December 1, 2020 12:00:00 PM UTC.

Teku is ready to be a part of the Mainnet launch, and we're coordinating with other client teams to make the launch a success. Here's a timeline of key events, including the Teku releases that will lead up to Mainnet launch.
```

> Note that the exact genesis time depends on when enough deposits are received. If it takes longer
> to reach the minimum validators required, then the date the Mainnet genesis is set will be delayed 
> until enough validators are registered.  The Mainnet chain will then start 7 days after the genesis 
> is set. There will be a Teku release in the 7 days prior to the Mainnet chain starting and users 
> should ensure they upgrade to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: The exact genesis time depends on when enough deposits are received. If it takes longer to reach the minimum validators required, then the Mainnet genesis date will be delayed until enough validators are registered. If delayed, then the Mainnet chain will start 7 days after genesis is set. There will be a Teku release within the 7 days before the Mainnet chain starts, and users should ensure they upgrade to it.
```

Author: The main net chain will always start 7 days after the genesis state is set, regardless of whether it is delayed or not.  Changing "the date the Mainnet genesis is set" to "the Mainnet genesis date" is unfortunately ambiguous - the genesis date is actually the date the chain starts, the genesis state is set (or becomes known) 7 days prior to that.

I think I've picked up as much of the the improvements to wording as I can...

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Event                            | Scheduled Date       | Notes
---------------------------------|----------------------|-------------------------------------------

> Teku 0.12.14 release             | 11 November          | Includes the Mainnet ready specification available with `--network mainnet`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Teku 0.12.14 release             | 11 November          | Includes the Mainnet-ready specification available with the `--network mainnet` command line option.
```

Author: Changed.

Teku 20.11.0-RC1 release         | 18 November          | Makes `mainnet` the default network. Legacy options and APIs will be removed, see [Upcoming Breaking Changes](#upcoming-breaking-changes)
Earliest date for Mainnet genesis state to be set | 24 November | If enough deposits are received by this time, the Mainnet genesis state will be generated. Otherwise this will be delayed until enough deposits are received

> Teku 20.11.0 release             | Around 26 November   | First full production ready release of Teku.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Teku 20.11.0 release             | Around 26 November   | First full production-ready release of Teku.
```

Author: Changed.

> Earliest date for Mainnet launch | 1 December   | This will be delayed if not enough deposits are received by 24 November. The chain will always launch 7 days after the genesis state is set 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Earliest date for Mainnet launch | 1 December   | This will be delayed if required deposit amounts are not received by 24 November. The chain will always launch 7 days after the genesis state is set.
```

Author: Changed.

### Mainnet Genesis Release

> Regardless of when enough deposits are received to set the Mainnet genesis state, users 
> should expect a Teku release in the week between the genesis state being set and the chain actually starting.
> It is important to upgrade your nodes to this version prior to the chain starting to ensure a smooth
> launch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Regardless of the Mainnet genesis state date, users should expect a Teku release in the week leading up to the chain starting. It is important to upgrade your nodes to this version before the chain starts to ensure a smooth launch.
```

Author: Changed.

### CalVer Versioning

> Teku will adopt CalVer versioning for our production ready releases using the YY.M.patch format. 
> YY for year (20, 21, 22 etc), M for month (1, 2, 3, …, 11, 12) and patch is patch release number.
> 
> The final release on the old versioning system will be 0.12.14.
> 
> The first production ready release will be 20.11.0  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Teku will adopt the CalVer versioning convention for our production-ready releases, using the `YY.M.patch` format. `YY` for year (20, 21, 22 etc), `M` for month (1, 2, 3, …, 11, 12), and `patch` is patch release number.

The final release on the old versioning system will be 0.12.14.

The first production-ready release will be 20.11.0.
```

Author: Changed.

  - `/validator/aggregate_and_proofs` replaced by `/eth/v1/validator/aggregate_and_proofs`
  - `/validator/beacon_committee_subscription` replaced by `/eth/v1/validator/beacon_committee_subscriptions`
  - `/validator/persistent_subnets_subscription` deprecated. The beacon node now automatically establishes persistent subnet subscriptions based on calls to `/eth/v1/validator/beacon_committee_subscriptions`
  - `/beacon/block` deprecated. Replaced by `/eth/v1/beacon/blocks/{block_id}`
- `--validators-key-files` and `--validators-key-password-files` have been replaced by `--validator-keys`. The old arguments will be removed in a future release.
- Validator subcommands for generating and registering validators are now deprecated and will be removed in a future release to encourage the use of the Eth2 Launchpad, which is the most secure way of generating keys and sending deposits.

## 0.12.14

### Breaking Changes
- In post data for `/eth/v1/validator/aggregate_and_proofs`, `index` has been renamed to `aggregator_index` and `attestation` has been renamed to `aggregate` reflecting the latest version of the standard API spec.

> - Removed network definitions for `spadina` and `zinken` testnets which are no longer active

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Removed network definitions for `spadina` and `zinken` testnets which are no longer active.
```

- The `validator` subcommands to generate validator keys and send deposit transactions have been removed. Use the Eth2 Launchpad to register validators.

### Additions and Improvements
- Added the Mainnet network definition. To use Mainnet, ensure the ETH1 node is connected to Eth1 Mainnet and specify `--network mainnet`.
- New standard API endpoints:
  - GET `/eth/v1/config/fork_schedule`
  - GET `/eth/v1/beacon/blocks/{block_id}`
  - GET `/eth/v1/beacon/blocks/{block_id}/attestations`
  - GET `/eth/v1/beacon/blocks/{block_id}/root`
  - POST `/eth/v1/beacon/pool/voluntary_exits`
  - POST `/eth/v1/beacon/pool/proposer_slashings`
  - POST `/eth/v1/beacon/pool/attester_slashings`
  - GET `/eth/v1/config/deposit_contract`
- Added support for the Toledo devnet.
- Early access: Weak subjectivity sync no longer requires the initial block.  Only the state needs to be provided via `--Xws-initial-state`. Additionally the `Xws-initial-state` option can be specified via a config file.

> - Support either plain text or JSON responses from external signers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Support either plain text or JSON responses from external signers.
```

> - Identify which validator was affected when validator duties fail

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Identify which validator was affected when validator duties fail.
```

- Removed support for uncompressed `SSZ` encoding for gossip and p2p RPC. All networks have been using `SSZ_SNAPPY` encoding for some time.

### Bug Fixes

> - Fixed issue where deposit events were retrieved from too large a range of blocks. This resulted in overloading local Geth nodes running on Mainnet and exceeding the 10,000 log event limit in Infura responses

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed an issue where deposit events were retrieved from range of blocks that were too large. This resulted in overloading local Geth nodes running on Mainnet, and exceeding the 10,000 log event limit in Infura responses.
```

> - Reduce log level for `RpcTimeoutException` during sync

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Reduce log level for `RpcTimeoutException` during sync.
```

Author: Added a lot of fullstops.
